#Define my success

##Introduction

This content provides an overview of the requirements for properly defining
success for the deployment of Audio Conferencing for your organization. By
properly defining your success, you can measure your results as you progress
through your deployment and verify that the outcomes you achieve are the
outcomes you wanted.

##Define business use cases for Audio Conferencing

Audio Conferencing provides organizations with additional entry points to any
meetings (ad hoc or scheduled) by allowing meeting participants to join via
public switched telephone network (PSTN) by dialing in using traditional
landline, PBX, or mobile phones.

This is useful when the organizer or participants aren’t in front of a computer,
or when data connections are unavailable or too unreliable to support voice
communications—such as in a remote area with spotty mobile data coverage, or
connected to a free, public Wi-Fi service with limited bandwidth, or when
meeting participants prefer to dial in to the meeting by using a telephony
endpoint that’s readily accessible to them.

To begin with, core project stakeholders need to define business use cases that
support the implementation of Audio Conferencing.

Business use cases are meant to define and document expected and measurable
business outcomes, and include the following:

-   Description of the current business process

-   Challenges with the existing business process

-   How technology can help overcome these challenges

-   The expected and measurable business outcomes if these challenges are
    overcome

[!TIP] The following is an example of a completed business use case: \| \|
\|---------\| \|**Description of the current business process**  
Contoso currently relies on PSTN conferencing services provided by the incumbent
local telephony provider chargeable by meeting minutes for internal meetings and
meetings involving external parties.\| \|**Challenges with the existing business
process**  
Contoso spends roughly USD 1 million per year for the current PSTN conferencing
service, with 75% of the cost incurred for internal meetings.  
The use of traditional telephony endpoints to join the meetings hosted by the
PSTN conferencing service isn’t aligned with the plan for the organization to
adopt Teams as a modern communications and collaboration platform.\| \|**How
technology can overcome these challenges**  
With the adoption of Microsoft Teams as a modern communications and
collaboration platform, internal users are expected to primarily join meetings
by using their PCs equipped with optimized headsets and meeting-room devices.
The Audio Conferencing service will be available to support external
participants or to support situations where the use of PC audio isn’t favorable
for the internal participants.\| \|**Expected, measurable business outcomes**  
The move to Teams as a modern communications and collaboration platform,
combined with the Audio Conferencing service, will greatly reduce the cost to
deliver the PSTN conferencing service.\|

In addition to defining your business use cases, to set the project boundaries
you should aim to drive clarity around:

-   **Organizational scope:** The implementation of Audio Conferencing might
    encompass the whole organization or just specific business units.

-   **Project timeline:** The specific timeline the project will run.

| [./media/image1.png](./media/image1.png) |
|------------------------------------------|


    ~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image7.png

        Decision points

        What are all the business use cases for Audio Conferencing you can
        identify in your organization?

| [./media/image2.png](./media/image2.png) | Next steps | Document all business use cases for Audio Conferencing for your organization. |   |
|------------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|


~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image9.png

##Identify key stakeholders

The business use cases defined in the previous step include an organizational
scope for the Audio Conferencing implementation, and based on that, you can
complete the comprehensive stakeholder matrix to include the right people to
involve in the project.

[!TIP] Below is an example of stakeholder matrix template that you can use to
document the project stakeholders: \|Role \|Description \|Name, contact
information, location \| \|---------\|---------\|---------\| \|Project Executive
Sponsor\|

-   Ultimate authority and accountability for the project and delivery on
    project objectives

-   Help resolve issues escalated by the Project Lead

-   Sponsors communication within the company about project goals

-   Responsible for making key strategic decisions

-   Responsible for the availability of required resources and budget

-   Leading Quarterly Business Reviews (QBR)

-   Buy-in and support of awareness campaign effort

-   Serving as the Project Sponsor to the program rollout

\|TBA\| \|Project Lead\|

-   Managing and leading the project team

-   Coordinates partners and working teams engaged in the project

-   Accountable for creating and managing project plans to meet quarterly key
    results

-   Resolving cross-functional issues

-   Providing regular updates to the project sponsors

-   Incorporating adoption aspects into the all-up project plan

-   Leading Monthly Business and Operational Reviews (MBR), contributing to
    Quarterly Business Reviews

\|TBA\| \|Collaboration Lead/Architect\|

-   Responsible for execution on collaboration strategy defined by company
    executives

-   Analyzing and choosing collaboration products for the company that meet
    business goals

-   Responsible for the design of the operations for collaboration products

-   Defines the operation and support models

-   Contributing to Monthly and Quarterly Business Reviews

>   \|TBA\| \|Consultant\|

-   Responsible for configuration services

-   Contributes to overall solution architecture

\|TBA\| \|Project Manager\|

-   Developing and maintaining the project plan

-   Managing project deliverables in line with the project plan and budget

-   Recording and managing project issues, including escalations

-   Conducting weekly standup calls

-   Liaises with, and provides updates to, project executive sponsors

-   Working with the architect to define the change management approach and
    communication plans

\|TBA\| \|Change Management/Adoption Specialist\|

-   Provide input during the Discovery phase into adoption and training
    processes

-   Participate in the adoption strategy workshop

-   Developing and taking responsibility for the adoption strategy

-   Developing and executing the communication plan

-   Responsible for delivering trainings to users

-   Collect feedback and conduct surveys

\|TBA\| \|Network Lead\|

-   Providing input during the Discovery phase into network design

-   Participating in planning during the Envision phase workshop

-   Coordinates the work of the networking team during project execution

\|TBA\| \|Security Lead\|

-   Providing input during the Discovery phase into security design and
    processes

-   Participating in planning during the Envision phase workshop

-   Coordinates the work of the security team during project execution

\|TBA\| \|Telephony Lead\|

-   Providing input during the Discovery phase into telephony design

-   Participating in planning during the Envision phase workshop

-   Coordinates the work of the telephony team during project execution

\|TBA\| \|Desktop Lead\|

-   Providing input during the Discovery phase into the clients and update
    process

-   Participating in planning during the Envision workshop

-   Coordinates the work of the desktop team during project execution

\|TBA\| \|Support/Help Desk Lead\|

-   Providing input during the Discovery phase into the operational and support
    models

-   Participating in planning during the Envision phase workshop

-   Participating in support model planning

-   Coordinates the work of support teams and resources during project execution

\|TBA\| \|Business Unit Representatives\|

-   Contribute to user-based adoption guides and materials

-   Contribute to and review business use cases

\|TBA\| \|Deployment Lead\|

-   Ensure that deployment prerequisites are met

-   Engage resources to be involved in the Onboard phase activities

-   Participate in meetings to review and prepare reports on deployment status

\|TBA\| \|IT Admins\|

-   IT pros responsible for assistance with test planning and execution

\|TBA\| \|Service Owner\|

-   Is responsible for the operation of the Audio Conferencing service, all up

-   Owner of the Audio Conferencing service

\|TBA\| \|Quality Champions\|

-   Drives quality, reliability, and user feedback

-   Identifies quality trends and drives remediation with the respective teams

-   Reports through the steering committee back to leadership

-   Reports on quality, reliability, and user sentiment through Rate My Call and
    Net Promoter Score

\|TBA\|

| [./media/image1.png](./media/image1.png) |
|------------------------------------------|


~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image7.png

    Decision points

    Who will fill each key stakeholder role for your organization?

| [./media/image2.png](./media/image2.png) | Next steps | Document all key stakeholders, and communicate the responsibilities and expectations of the role to each assigned individual. |   |
|------------------------------------------|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|


~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image9.png

##Define OKRs, KSIs, and risks

With the project stakeholders assembled, you can translate business use cases,
organizational scope, and project timelines into objectives and key results
(OKRs), and the measures of project success can be defined as a list of key
success indicators (KSIs).

Full participation from project stakeholders in defining OKRs and KSIs is
essential to help ensure they feel a sense of ownership and align these measures
of success to organizational business requirements.

OKRs contain the objectives you set in the beginning of the project, and you
define measurable key results on a quarterly basis. You review key results
monthly to track the status of the overall project, and—based on progress—you
adjust quarterly plans as needed.

[!TIP] Example of OKRs relevant to Audio Conferencing implementation can be
referenced below:

**Vision: Increase productivity by maximizing Office 365 investments**
\|Objectives \|Key Results \|To Do \| \|---------\|---------\|---------\|
\|Deploy Audio Conferencing in Teams by end of fiscal year 2018\|FY18Q1: Deploy
Audio Conferencing in Teams globally\|Envision

-   Create a success plan

-   Create a detailed technical implementation plan

Onboard

-   Execute the success plan

-   Execute the technical implementation plan

\| \|Decommission legacy PSTN Conferencing service globally by
mid-FY2018\|FY18Q2: Decommission legacy PSTN Conferencing service
globally\|Drive Value

-   Boost user engagement and drive adoption

-   Manage and prepare change

-   Measure, share success, and iterate

>   \|

KSIs measure quality and success of the key results, and complement the binary
nature of OKRs (achieved or not achieved) by detailing good and/or bad results.

When defining KSIs, we recommend that you use “specific, measurable, assignable,
realistic, time-related” (SMART) criteria:

-   Specific: target a specific area for improvement

-   Measurable: quantify, or at least suggest an indicator of, progress

-   Assignable: specify who will do it

-   Realistic: state what results can realistically be achieved, given available
    resources

-   Time-related: specify when the results can be achieved

[!TIP] The following is an example of a KSI relevant to this project: \|Type
\|KSI question and criteria \|How measured \|Success criteria \|Measured
\|Responsible \|
\|---------\|---------\|---------\|---------\|---------\|---------\|
\|Usage/adoption\|Call quality is equal to or better than the previous
solution\|Survey\|80% of users agree or strongly agree\|After enablement and
quarterly\|Information Technology team\| \|Usage/adoption\|Microsoft Teams made
the communication process easier\|Survey\|80% of users agree or strongly
agree\|After enablement and quarterly\|Change Management team\|
\|Usage/adoption\|Users actively use the solution\|Office 365 reports, Call
Quality Dashboard\|80% of users are active daily users\|Daily\|Change Management
team\| \|Usage/quality\|Percentage of poor calls/conferences should be
minimal\|Call Quality Dashboard\|\< 5% of poor calls per
month\|Daily\|Information Technology team\| \|Usage/support\|I know how to get
technical support\|Survey\|90% of users agree or strongly agree\|After
enablement and quarterly\|Change Management team\| \|Usage/support\|I am
satisfied with the quality of technical support\|Survey\|80% of users agree or
strongly agree\|After each incident\|Information Technology team\|
\|Financial\|Reduction of legacy conferencing minutes\|Financial system\|Meet
defined ROI\|Based on ROI\|Change Management team\|

You need to identify business risks as part of this exercise, and define a
mitigation plan for each identified risk. This information can be captured into
a risks register.

[!TIP] Your risk plan can be documented as the example below: \|Risk
\|Likelihood \|Impact \|Overall \|Mitigation plan \|
\|---------\|---------\|---------\|---------\|---------\| \|Upcoming merger will
add up to 1,000 people\|High\|High\|High\|

-   For merged companies, create a separate OKR that applies to their own
    project phases (Envision, Onboard, Drive Value)

-   Don’t include these OKRs in existing OKRs

\| \|Telephone number porting will delay project completion\|High\|High\|High\|

-   Prepare all the information required to support telephone number porting
    ahead of time (customer service record, billing details, Letter of
    Authorization)

-   Adjust the project timeline to accommodate the turnaround time of telephone
    number porting execution

-   Communicate the use of new dial-in conferencing numbers to external
    participants

\| \|Planned network redesign\|High\|Medium\|Medium\|

-   Before implementing Teams as a modern communications and collaboration
    platform, conduct a network readiness assessment for sites in scope of the
    project

\|

##Establish a steering committee

A steering committee is a governing group of key stakeholders and project
leaders who have been brought together to guide a project or program toward its
defined business outcomes. The steering committee isn’t directly responsible for
*how* the project is delivered, but rather *what* the project delivers to the
business.

Every project requires an agreed-on vision and charter. To deliver the outcomes
you want from the project, the vision must be clearly defined, and it needs to
be monitored and maintained. This becomes the responsibility of the steering
committee: to drive decisions, advise, provide strategic oversight, to serve as
advocates to the organization for the project’s initiatives, and—when
necessary—remove blockers.

Your organization should put significant thought into the formation of the
steering committee. The committee must ensure that the project achieves the
business objectives you’ve defined for driving change throughout the
organization, meet periodically to discuss the current pulse of the project, and
help unblock any obstacles that are encountered along the way.

The committee should define its charter to include some key objectives:

-   Keep a strong alignment between the project team and the executive sponsor
    or executive leadership.

-   Provide insight into the status of the project to the executive sponsor or
    executive leadership.

-   Allow the executive sponsor or executive leadership team to provide
    direction and input to the project and ensure that it aligns with
    overarching business goals, by adjusting project plans, objective key
    results (OKRs), and other project activities.

The steering committee meets at a recurring interval throughout the lifetime of
a project to ensure alignment between the organizational leadership and the
project team. This critical meeting ensures that the direction of the project
has leadership’s full support and incorporates any feedback provided by
leadership into the project to drive success. The committee uses these meetings
to gain insight into project status, and to:

-   Agree on business outcomes that align to the business case, and to ensure
    the project is driving towards delivery of these outcomes.

-   Check and approve the project for accuracy and compliance with the business
    case.

-   Review and verify changes made to the business case that could affect any
    defined outcomes.

-   Make strategic decisions regarding the prioritization of project
    deliverables, and approve interim deliverables.

-   Identify, manage, and mitigate gaps, risks, and issues where additional
    influence is required from the committee.

-   Gather support from the executive sponsor or executive leadership team for
    issues that require escalation, prioritizing and resolving any conflicts
    between stakeholder business units. 

-   Provide formal feedback and recommendations to executive leadership, the
    change advisory board, or other business and IT stakeholders, as applicable.

| [./media/image1.png](./media/image1.png) |
|------------------------------------------|


    ~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image7.png

        Decision points

        Decide whether a steering committee is required for your organization.

| [./media/image2.png](./media/image2.png) | Next steps | Identify members of the steering committee. |   |
|------------------------------------------|------------|---------------------------------------------|---|


~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image9.png

-   Schedule steering committee meetings.

-   Prepare for steering committee meetings.

-   Hold steering committee meetings.

-   Take action based on steering committee meeting input.

Additional detailed guidance on how to operate a proper steering committee can
be found in the steering committee guide available here [Provide Link].
