#Prepare my users

##Drive user adoption of cloud voice services

As you get your technical environment ready to support Audio Conferencing or
Phone System with Calling Plans, take time to ensure your users are ready for
the change as well. Simply turning off one tool and turning on another doesn’t
guarantee good results. We’ve seen users turn to their mobile phones, use
self-selected third-party tools, even buy their own audio conferencing minutes,
all without IT knowing. To maximize results, drive adoption, and create
“stickiness,” users must accept the new solution, learn it, and use it as part
of their daily routine.

Our proven change management framework, designed to be run in parallel with your
technical readiness planning, is built on five core building blocks for change.
It’s designed to be easily repeatable, adaptable, and flexible enough to meet
your needs. Leverage the following guidance and resources to get started today,
and look for more detailed guidance in the coming months.

![Core building blocks in order left to right: Project Team; Scope and Goals; Org & People Readiness; Awareness, Training & Support; ending in an Execution Plan.](media/5984d0902f3c0b845fe811265c2bfa84.emf)

### Assess your project team

Assess your project team to connect the right project stakeholders across IT,
marketing/communications, training, and support, and identify an adoption change
manager who has accountability for user success.

### Define the scope and goals of your plan

Together with your stakeholders, articulate the scope and goals for this
project. Define goals that you’ll measure throughout your project lifecycle to
ensure your project stays on track, in addition to those you’ll measure at the
end of the project. For optimal results, use a mix of technical and
user-readiness goals.

### Understand what constitutes organization and people readiness

To help realize your defined goals, take time to understand who the users are
who will be using your voice solution. Examine how those users work and which
devices are optimal for their role. Remember that change is optional: define the
value messaging for your users to ensure they understand “what’s in it for me.”

### Awareness, training and support

Use the user profiling you did in the “organizational and people readiness”
block to inform how much and what types of communication and training you should
apply to this change. Keep in mind that not everyone retains information the
same way, so use a variety of awareness, training, and support options to
maximize your reach.

### Execute your user adoption plan

When it comes to implementing your plan, we recommend that you start with a
pilot or early adopter program to validate user sentiment and then expand to
other personas and cohorts. Ultimately, you’re in control of your adoption
journey.

| [./media/image2.png](./media/image2.png) |
|------------------------------------------|


~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image7.png

    Decision points

    Who will be responsible for driving user adoption and change management
    during your organization’s implementation of cloud voice capabilities?

    -   How will you implement an adoption and change management strategy?

| [./media/image3.png](./media/image3.png) | Next steps | Download and review the [Office 365 Adoption Guide](https://fto365dev.blob.core.windows.net/media/Default/DocResources/en-us/Office_365_Adoption_Guide.pdf). |   |   |
|------------------------------------------|------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---|---|


~   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/MicrosoftTeams/media/audio_conferencing_image9.png

-   Document your strategy for driving user adoption.

-   Finalize schedule and communications plans to begin your adoption campaign.
